Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to talk about corner detection when thinking about corner detection and computer vision
we should first ask ourselves what is a corner.
What defines an actual corner firmly speaking.
A corner is a point whose local neighborhood stands in two dominant and different edge directions.
Or put simply a corner can be interpreted as the junction of two edges or an edge is a sudden change
in image brightness.
Now there are various corner detection algorithms.
We're going to take a look at some of the most popular algorithms pacifically the Harris corner detection
and the sheet Thomasine corner detection hers core of detection was published in 1988 by Chris Harris
and Mike Stevens.
The basic intuition is that courters can be detected by looking for significant change in all directions.
So here we have an example of a corner in an image.
So we have two edges and when they meet there's our corner let's imagine we started scanning and searching
the image looking for corners shifting this particular blue window that we have on top of the image
in any direction would result in a large change in appearance if that particular window happens to be
located on a corner.
Flat regions will have no change in any direction.
So if this particular window happens to be outside of something that contains any edges or corners then
we call this flat because there is no change.
As you scan in any direction if you're on a particular edge you're not going to have a major change
along the direction of the edge.
Which means our general intuition.
And here we see the actual formula for corner Haras detection is that if we're scanning the image with
a window just as we would with a kernel and we notice that there is an area where there's a major change
no matter in what direction we actually scan.
Then we have a good intuition that there's probably a corner there.
It's not just an edge because an edge.
Remember that still won't have much of a change along the edge direction if we actually have a corner
that if we start moving in any direction there we're going to experience a major change.
The sheets of maasi corner of the section was published in 1994 by J She and see Tomasi in their paper.
Good features to track.
It made a small modification to the Harris corner detector which ended up with better results.
So it's actually based almost directly off the Harris detection algorithm.
It just has a small modification and what it does is it changes the scoring function selection criteria
that the heris cornered detection uses and the Harris detection uses that following formula here where
we have Lamda one times planet into minus k times the sum of both Flandres she Thomasine actually just
reduces that to be the minimum of land the one versus lammed that too.
And you can go ahead and check out the resource links for a full breakdown of the actual mathematics
behind these Korder detection algorithms.
But we're going to focus on here is the practical implementation of them with open C-v and Python OK.
So again we're exploring how to use both of the open Seabee library.
Be sure to check out the resource links and I've included the original publications for each of those
papers if you're interested in exploring the full mathematical details behind the course of detection
algorithms.
Let's open up Juber the lab and get started.
Right in a fresh Jupiter notebook.
I'm going to start by reading out some images and the first one is going to be just a flash flash chessboard
image.
So we'll say C-v to him read and then I'm going to call data forward slash flight chess board that peahen
G.
And then I will say flat chess is equal to CB2 the CBT color.
And we're going to convert this to just be red green blue.
So it looks strange flat chests and then CB2 color blue green red to red green blue.
OK.
So let's actually show what that image looks like.
So we say flat chests and here's our chessboard.
It's essentially flat.
It's an eight big grid.
And later on we're actually going to talk of a grid detection on how to detect grid like patterns in
normal images.
But really the reason we bring this up here is because there's some really clear corners of the text
here essentially where each of these edges meet that's going to be all I should say where each of these
squares me that's going to be a corner versus the edges themselves.
That's just an edge.
So we have clear corners and clear edges and we're going to compare it to see how the algorithms work
to find those corners.
Then what I'm also going to do is load this up in greyscale so I will say Gray flat chests is equal
to CB2 CBT color call a flat board and then changes to color underscore and this will go to BGR to gray
run that.
And let's show you what that looks like although you probably have a good guess of what it looks like
is essentially just a greyscale version which if we do see map is equal to gray then we can see the
grayscale there.
All right so we have this flat chessboard in color and this flat chessboard in grayscale.
I'm also going to upload a picture of a real chessboard.
So let's load that up as real chess.
We will say real chess is equal to CB2 image read.
I would say data and then call real chessboard that jpeg and then say real chess and fix the color on
that one just so we can visualize it.
CVT color real chess C-v to color.
And this is blue green red to green blue show that image.
And here we have the real chessboard.
So this one's quite a bit more complicated than just a flat image the image.
It's pretty obvious where the corners are going to be.
So we should be able to detect all these inner corners the ones on the actual edge are probably not
going to help protect those just because it's at the edge of the image.
But we should at least expect to see that this integrate all the corners will be detected for this real
image.
It's actually going to be a little bit harder because there might be defined corners in the actual pieces
themselves.
So we should be able to find corners in the actual board and that will probably also find corners in
the pieces themselves.
So for example the Rook's here on the edge it looks like they have square corners and maybe you can
even think of the bishops as having corners because it's essentially a not such high resolution image.
So what maybe a curve actually looks like a corner.
So will be fun to explore this image as well and let's make a greyscale version of this one as well
so I'll say Gray real chess is equal to CB2 CVT color.
And then we're going to pass in the real chessboard and say C-v to color underscore are to gray.
And then I will say peel t him show Gray real chess see map equals to gray.
And as you might expect that is just the Grayskull version of that chessboard.
So now that we have our images let's actually apply Harris Gorant detection on both of them.
See how it performs.
And then we'll also apply this sheet to maasi corner detection from the good features the track paper.
So we're going to do here is the following we'll say great as a variable and where to convert the grayscale
image to float values.
Because if we look at the one we have right now for the gray flat chests right now they're all integers.
And we're going to either be floating point values for the corner hairs detection algorithm.
So we're going to say is gray is equal to and MP 32.
And then just pasan the gray flat chests so we'll do the flat one first and if we take a look at right
now it's the same values.
Now they just have at this point.
So they're floating point values.
Then it's time for the corner.
Harris detection algorithm and this was actually pretty straightforward.
You say the destination variable name then CB2 and then call corner and we'll say corner hairs.
You provide the source image.
In our case it's that grayscale image and then you have a couple of parameters the block size parameter
is essentially the neighborhood size.
And that's how it actually the text the corner eigenvalues and vectors.
So a common block size to choose is to.
But this is something else you can experiment with.
So if say block size is 2 and then we have case size as an x parameter case size is the aperture parameter
for the Sobol operator.
So previously we talked about Sobol operators and x ray x and y gradients So the corner Harris detection
algorithm actually uses that.
And part of it is going to be the kernel size for that Sobol operator.
So we'll say OK size is three.
And then we have the K value that's just k by itself.
And this is the hairiest detector free parameter and I would encourage you to see the formula in the
documentation string.
So if you actually look at the documentation string and do shift tab here it will actually show the
full formulas for this.
So this one that we're looking at right now that's the Harris detector for the parameter what we're
going to do is we're just going to keep that to 0.04.
That's a pretty good default value usually but again you can adjust these as necessary starting off
from these defaults and then moving up if necessary.
So that's going to be the corner Harris protection algorithm.
And then the result is dilated for marking the corners.
So it's not important to the actual quarter of the election.
This is just so we can actually plot the points on the image below.
So what I will do is take that result and then say the T is equal to CB2 and dilates and direly it's
just a morphological operator just as we discussed with erosion.
So we're going to dilate this just a little bit.
None is the second parameter repasts there.
And again this doesn't really have much of the corner Harris detection algorithm.
It's really just so I can show you the results so we're going to do is there is a threshold for an optimal
value.
And it may vary depending on the image where we're going to do.
Here is the following.
I'm going to take my original flat chessboard image.
Remember this is the one in color and then I'm going to say the following.
I'm going to say wherever the result are at the destination result of my corner Here's algorithm is
greater than 0.01 times the max value.
So let's think about what this is actually doing 0.01 times the max value.
That's essentially 1 percent of the max value.
So ever my result of the corner hairs is greater than 1 percent of the max value what I'm going to do
is re-assign that to be equal to the color red.
I remember 2 5 5 0 0 this is just R.G. B channels.
So I'm saying we're ever at the result of this quarter.
Harris image the actual image had a greater than 1 percent of the max value then that's a quarter that
was detected.
Again this is really just for visualization and you have to do this Dileep process first to do that
visualization.
So we run this and let's see the results
Okay.
And there we have it.
We were able to text all the image all the corners inside the internal image these corners on the edge.
Unfortunately it's not able to detect those because if you think about it there's nothing else on the
edge for it to see into.
So it just sees essentially a flat space.
So all of this on the outside according to the corner here is that section that's a flat space because
it didn't see the other edge that is technically on the border or on the outside.
Well because that is then filled out maybe our own custom edge on the very border and the tech of those
corners as well.
But for the corners that are there it looks like it was able to tuck them perfectly again just by using
a sort of formula.
We went ahead and mark them all as read.
OK.
Now let's try on the actual real chessboard and see how that performs.
So we're going to do the same thing here I want to say Gray is equal to float 32 and passen Gray.
Real chess board and say C-v to corner Harris source is equal to Gray and I'm going to be using the
same parameters as I did last time and I encourage you to use these as well and then adjust as you need
fit.
So case size will say three and then equal to zero point zero or four.
OK so these are just kind of default values that we're using here.
So we're going to run that and then in order to actually visualize this we'll say CB2 dilate DST none.
And then we're going to do the same sort of thresholding we will say real chess DST is greater than
0.01 times Diest T-Max and set that equal to red so 2 5 5 0 0.
OK so now let's see where it found corners on that real chessboard image.
And you'll notice now it's affecting way more corners.
So luckily for us it detected all the major corners on the actual chess board.
What's interesting is it actually then it detect the corners on the outside right here.
So I think those were corners enough and I can see how it could think those are flat.
It's not as obvious as the dark and white tiles here on a chess board but it also tested a lot of corners
on the black pieces.
That's something you have to keep in mind as you work with Harris corner detection especially if you
didn't think it was going to actually record those pieces as having corners.
All right.
In part two what we're going to do is expand on this and show you how to perform the sheets of maasi
corner the doctor.
It's a very similar process.
And in fact I think it's actually a little easier to use but we'll go ahead and explore it in the very
next lecture.
I'll see either.